

This a model from the article:  
**Role for G protein Gbetagamma isoform specificity in synaptic signal processing: a computational study.**   
Bertram R, Arnot MI, Zamponi GW. _J Neurophysiol_ 2002 May;87(5):2612-23
[11976397](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11976397) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Computational modeling is used to investigate the functional impact of G
protein-mediated presynaptic autoinhibition on synaptic filtering properties.
It is demonstrated that this form of autoinhibition, which is relieved by
depolarization, acts as a high-pass filter. This contrasts with vesicle
depletion, which acts as a low-pass filter. Model parameters are adjusted to
reproduce kinetic slowing data from different Gbetagamma dimeric isoforms,
which produce different degrees of slowing. With these sets of parameter
values, we demonstrate that the range of frequencies filtered out by the
autoinhibition varies greatly depending on the Gbetagamma isoform activated by
the autoreceptors. It is shown that G protein autoinhibition can enhance the
spatial contrast between a spatially distributed high-frequency signal and
surrounding low-frequency noise, providing an alternate mechanism to lateral
inhibition. It is also shown that autoinhibition can increase the fidelity of
coincidence detection by increasing the signal-to-noise ratio in the
postsynaptic cell. The filter cut, the input frequency below which signals are
filtered, depends on several biophysical parameters in addition to those
related to Gbetagamma binding and unbinding. By varying one such parameter,
the rate at which transmitter unbinds from autoreceptors, we show that the
filter cut can be adjusted up or down for several of the Gbetagamma isoforms.
This allows for great synapse-to-synapse variability in the distinction
between signal and noise.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Bertram R, Arnot MI, Zamponi GW. (2002) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/967a61fb890450b55f5bcadeeef7e07b)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

